1. Overview
This course is an introduction to the field of single-cell RNA sequencing. It encompasses a range of software and analytical workflows, from best practices for filtering scRNA-seq data to downstream analysis for cell clustering and temporal sequencing. This course will help participants obtain accurate insights in the pre-processing, analysis, and interpretation of scRNA-seq data.
The course begins with an introduction to general concepts about single-cell RNA sequencing. From there, we will go on to describe the major analytical steps from raw sequencing data to processed and usable data. We will introduce classical analytical workflows, their output, and possible pathways for downstream analysis.
In the whole course we focus on the R/Bioconductor ecosystem and the different software packages that will be used to analyze the datasets and learn new methods
2. Course Schedule
The course is delivered in modules over three days. During the first 1/3 of each day, formal lectures will cover the key concepts needed to understand the principles of scRNA-seq analysis (approximately 2 hours).
After these lectures, practical examples will be shown to illustrate how to translate the knowledge gained into functional R codes (~1 hour). During this phase, participants will become familiar with state-of-the-art scRNAseq analysis packages, as well as bioinformatics best practices. In the second half of the day (3 hours), participants will work on their own, following guided exercises to improve their understanding of scRNAseq analysis workflow.
Tips and solutions will be provided for each exercise. The exercises will focus primarily on the specific concepts introduced earlier in the day. However, the analysis steps learned in the previous days will also be integrated so that by the end of the week, participants will be fully capable of performing basic scRNAseq analysis from start to finish.
Office hours will take place during the last hour of the exercise. The instructor will answer individual questions related to the daily exercises. The Slack channel will also be available so that everyone can get a Q&A.
3. Learning outcomes
By the end of this course, you should be able to understand 1) the advantages/disadvantages of different single-cell RNA-seq methods, 2) scRNA-seq data processing and quality control normalization, 3) scRNA-seq data batch effect elimination, 4) results visualization; and 5) apply dimensionality reduction techniques for cell clustering and annotation for differential gene expression analysis to infer cell trajectories and pseudo-times.

